---
title: My Yesod Review
---

I have had some experience with the Yesod framework and wanted to share
my opinion on whether it\'s good or bad.

What is yesod?
==============

Yesod is an MVC framework so think of Ruby on Rails or Django, written
and used in Haskell, it\'s mostly split into three parts.

Controllers (Routing and Handlers)
==================================

Controllers is the part where you write the logic of the website like
what routes you want to have and what to do when you receive a request,
in Yesod this is split between two sections:

Routing
-------

Routing is done via an embedded domain specific language utilizing
Haskell\'s Template Haskell, it\'s easy and it\'s the best part about
Yesod in my opinion, here is an example:

``` {.haskell}
/software/#SoftwareId SoftwareR GET POST
```

This adds a software route with an enumerated `SoftwareId` integer,
`SoftwareR` is the identifier to use for the route, `GET` and `POST` are
the HTTP methods allowed.

Handlers
--------

Handlers are done in the Handler monad, to make a Handler, for example
to make a `GET` handler, you make a function name starting with `get`
like `getHomeR = ...` and likewise with `POST`.

View
====

The view is what the end user sees in a website, from all the fanciness
of CSS to the dynamism of JS, it\'s all here.

Shakespearen templates
----------------------

Shakespearean templates are what you would use to make the view, they
are different from web DSLs by having:

-   type guarantees
-   Interopelation of Haskell data
-   Indentation style rather than curly braces style.

Shakspearen templates also have an Emacs mode which is nice.

Widget
------

Widget is the monad where your shakespearen templates live in, the great
thing about Widget is that you can easily compose it, assume that you
have widgetHtml, widgetCSS, widgetJS, you can easily compose them like
`widgetFull =  widgetHtml + widgetCSS + widgetJS.`

Model
=====

The default database interface is Persistent (it comes with the DB
oriented scaffold\'s), you can use SQLite, Postgresql and more.

Persistent
----------

To make effects (use the DB), you can use use the entry point function
`runDB`, there was a large learning curve to make sure that the types
match but after you understand it, it\'s pretty smooth.

Pros && Cons
============

Pros
----

### Modularity

Yesod is modular where you can choose DB\'s or template engines, it is
also build on top of WAI which is/can also used by other
libraries/frameworks like Servant and IHP.

### Documentation

Yesod has a book that is easy to read and has great code examples though
it is slightly terse in that i wish it has a bit more depth is some
topics.

Cons
----

### Modularity

Modularity is a pro and a con for Yesod, the problem is that since Yesod
is so modular, the documentation takes a hit by not necessarily assuming
that you are using the default scaffold.

### Lack of community

This is my biggest problem with Yesod, it lacks a community around it
therefore you have to ask in haskell channels which may or may not
provide the help wanted.

### Persistent

Persistent lacks composability badly, there are most likely reasons for
this but it still a complaint in my opinion

### Bootstrap version

In the scaffolding, Yesod still uses Bootstrap 3, rather than Bootstrap
4 or even 5, which makes finding documentation a little unpleasant.

### Language extensions

Yesod uses language extensions, some of which are:

1.  Template Haskell

    I like the use of template haskell as a way to make DSL\'s for
    routing and compsobale widgets, the error messages though generally
    are horrible are extremely confusing.

2.  Typefamilies

    As Yesod is a beginner web framework, it shouldn\'t deal with
    type-level programming but alas it does with functions from types to
    types.

### Refresh

Yesod doesn\'t automatically refresh the browser, in 2023 this is a
necessary feature and makes the developer experience much much better.
